Connect node with lisk service - Closes 1522 (#1823)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/integrate-blockchain/utilizing-lisk-service/connecting-lisk-service.adoc

:url_blockchain_client: build-blockchain/create-blockchain-client.adoc
:url_service_docker_setup: {docs_service}setup/docker.adoc
:url_service_source_setup: {docs_service}setup/source.adoc
:url_connect_node: {docs_service}/setup/docker.adoc#connecting-lisk-service-to-a-blockchain-node

Lisk Service is a web application middleware that allows interaction with various blockchain networks based on the Lisk protocol.
In this guide, you'll learn to connect a blockchain node with Lisk Service.

[NOTE]
====
*Pre-requisite*

It is necessary to set up a blockchain node first, before setting up Lisk Service.

* To connect with Lisk Service, make sure that you have set up a blockchain node e.g. Lisk Core node. See any of our setup guides, such as the xref:{url_npm_core_setup}[].
* Alternatively, you can setup up a sidechain node to connect with Lisk Service.
If you are starting from scratch, take a look at our xref:{url_blockchain_client}[How to create a new blockchain client] guide.

* Lisk Service must be set up via either the recommended xref:{url_service_docker_setup}[] or the xref:{url_service_source_setup}[] guide.
====

== Configuring a node

> Lisk Service is installed in addition to a Lisk blockchain application such as Lisk Core or a sidechain client, to provide enriched network data for third-party services.

Reviewer: It'd be nice to hyperlink `sidechain` to it's definition/relevant glossary if it already exists in the docs.

* `--api-http` allows remote servers to connect with the blockchain node via HTTP.

[tabs]
=====
Sidechain node::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
./bin/run start --api-ws --api-ws-host=0.0.0.0 --api-ws-port=7887 --api-http
----
--
Lisk Core node::
+
--
The `--network` flag determines the blockchain network Lisk Core connects to.

[source,bash]
----
lisk-core start --network mainnet --api-ws --api-ws-host=0.0.0.0 --api-ws-port=7887 --api-http
----
To connect to a different network, replace `mainnet` with either `testnet` or `devnet`.
--
=====

Once the node starts, follow the steps mentioned in the xref:{url_connect_node}[Connecting Lisk Service to a blockchain node] section to connect Lisk service with a node.

== Running Lisk Service
Run the docker container for `lisk-service`, `redis`, and `mysql` or `mariadb`.

[tabs]
=====
lisk-service::
+
--
.Run "lisk-service" container: ./lisk-service/
[source,bash]
----
make up
----
--
redis::
+
--
.Run "redis" container: ./lisk-service/jenkins/redis
[source,bash]
----
make up
----
--
mariadb::
+
--
.Run "mariadb" container: ./lisk-service/jenkins/mariadb
[source,bash]
----
make up
----
--
=====

== Checking established connection 

> After both the blockchain client and the Lisk service are running, you'll see a similar message to the following on your node CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After both the blockchain client and the Lisk Service are running, you'll see a similar message to the following on your node CLI.
```

[source,bash]
----
2023-06-27T11:03:39.085Z INFO XYZ.local engine 35439 New web socket client connected
----

> Another hint that your node is now connected to Lisk service is that a series of API calls will be made from the `indexer` service of Lisk service to index all the blocks from your node. This will also enable Lisk service to serve end-user requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another hint that your node is now connected to Lisk Service is that a series of API calls will be made from the `indexer` service of Lisk Service to index all the blocks from your node. This will also enable Lisk Service to serve end-user requests.
```

Reviewer: I'd rather recommend you to highlight the following log from the `blockchain-connector` service to verify that Lisk Service has successfully connected to the node.

```
2023-06-26T16:09:28.435 INFO [app] Found a node, starting service LISK-SERVICE-BLOCKCHAIN-CONNECTOR...
```

or 

```
2023-06-26T15:14:21.758 INFO [$NODE] Service '$node' stopped.
2023-06-26T15:14:21.758 INFO [CONNECTOR] Service 'connector' stopped.
2023-06-26T15:14:21.759 INFO [REGISTRY] Node '5ab791a48515-1' disconnected.
2023-06-26T15:14:21.760 INFO [BROKER] ServiceBroker is stopped. Good bye.
2023-06-26T16:09:28.371 INFO [BROKER] Moleculer v0.14.29 is starting...
2023-06-26T16:09:28.372 INFO [BROKER] Namespace: <not defined>
2023-06-26T16:09:28.372 INFO [BROKER] Node ID: 30e17793ffb7-1
2023-06-26T16:09:28.373 INFO [REGISTRY] Strategy: RoundRobinStrategy
2023-06-26T16:09:28.373 INFO [REGISTRY] Discoverer: LocalDiscoverer
2023-06-26T16:09:28.373 INFO [BROKER] Serializer: JSONSerializer
2023-06-26T16:09:28.374 INFO [BROKER] Validator: FastestValidator
2023-06-26T16:09:28.375 INFO [BROKER] Registered 13 middleware(s).
2023-06-26T16:09:28.376 INFO [TRANSPORTER] NATS lib version:,1.4.12
2023-06-26T16:09:28.376 INFO [BROKER] Transporter: NatsTransporter
2023-06-26T16:09:28.392 INFO [sqlite3] Creating schema for blocks
2023-06-26T16:09:28.396 INFO [sqlite3] Creating schema for transactions
2023-06-26T16:09:28.435 INFO [app] Found a node, starting service LISK-SERVICE-BLOCKCHAIN-CONNECTOR...
```

= Connecting Lisk Service to a blockchain node
Muhammad Talha <muhammad.talha@lightcurve.io>
:toc: preamble
:toclevels: 5
:page-toclevels: 4
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -

:docs_core: v4@lisk-core::
:docs_service: 0.7@lisk-service::
:url_npm_core_setup: {docs_core}setup/npm.adoc
:url_blockchain_client: build-blockchain/create-blockchain-client.adoc
:url_service_docker_setup: {docs_service}setup/docker.adoc
:url_service_source_setup: {docs_service}setup/source.adoc
:url_connect_node: {docs_service}/setup/docker.adoc#connecting-lisk-service-to-a-blockchain-node
:url_sidechain: understand-blockchain/interoperability/index.adoc#sidechain

Lisk Service is a web application middleware that allows interaction with various blockchain networks based on the Lisk protocol.
In this guide, you'll learn to connect Lisk Service to a blockchain node.

[NOTE]
====
*Pre-requisite*

> It is necessary to set up a blockchain node first, before setting up Lisk Service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. It is required to set up a blockchain node.
```

> * To connect with Lisk Service, make sure that you have set up a blockchain node e.g. Lisk Core node. See any of our setup guides, such as the xref:{url_npm_core_setup}[].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Make sure that you have set up a blockchain node e.g. Lisk Core node.
Please refer to the dedicated setup guides, such as the xref:{url_npm_core_setup}[].
```

* Alternatively, you can setup up a xref:{url_sidechain}[sidechain] node to connect with Lisk Service.

> If you are starting from scratch, take a look at our xref:{url_blockchain_client}[How to create a new blockchain client] guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

not necessary to mention here.

> * Please make sure to set `system.keepEventsForHeights: -1` in the node config before synchronizing the node with the network.

Reviewer 2: Why is this important? Please explain it to the reader.

> * Lisk Service must be set up via either the recommended xref:{url_service_docker_setup}[] or the xref:{url_service_source_setup}[] guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. It is required to set up Lisk Service.

* Lisk Service must be installed. 
Please refer to the dedicated setup guides for xref:{url_service_docker_setup}[] and xref:{url_service_source_setup}[].
```

====

== Configuring a node

> Lisk Service is installed in addition to a Lisk blockchain application such as Lisk Core or a sidechain client, to provide enriched network data for third-party services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Would remove here, as it is not fitting the context.
Could be moved to line 19 instead.

> Use the client CLI to start the node with the desired configurations.

Reviewer 2: Imho we should not recommend to use node CLI here.
They should probably use pm2 or something else, to start the node in the background.

----
2023-06-27T11:07:16.746Z INFO XYZ.local engine 35439 [status=success method=chain_getBlockByHeight id=1230506] Handled RPC request
2023-06-27T11:07:16.746Z INFO XYZ.local engine 35439 [status=success method=chain_getBlockByHeight id=1230507] Handled RPC request
2023-06-27T11:07:16.746Z INFO XYZ.local engine 35439 [status=success method=chain_getBlockByHeight id=1230508] Handled RPC request
2023-06-27T11:07:16.746Z INFO XYZ.local engine 35439 [status=success method=chain_getBlockByHeight id=1230509] Handled RPC request
2023-06-27T11:07:16.746Z INFO XYZ.local engine 35439 [status=success method=chain_getBlockByHeight id=1230510] Handled RPC request
2023-06-27T11:07:16.746Z INFO XYZ.local engine 35439 [status=success method=chain_getBlockByHeight id=1230511] Handled RPC request
2023-06-27T11:07:16.746Z INFO XYZ.local engine 35439 [status=success method=chain_getBlockByHeight id=1230512] Handled RPC request
2023-06-27T11:07:16.747Z INFO XYZ.local engine 35439 [status=success method=chain_getBlockByHeight id=1230513] Handled RPC request
2023-06-27T11:07:16.747Z INFO XYZ.local engine 35439 [status=success method=chain_getBlockByHeight id=1230514] Handled RPC request
----

> You can also invoke an endpoint of the blockchain node via Lisk service API like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also invoke an endpoint of the blockchain node via Lisk service API like this, to verify that the connection was established successfully:
```

[source,bash]
----
curl --location 'http://localhost:9901/api/v3/invoke' --header 'Content-Type: application/json' --data '{"endpoint": "chain_getLastBlock","params": {}}' | json_pp

> ----

Reviewer 2: Maybe it would be nice to write some closing remarks and to guide the user to other useful resources like the API reference.

= Connecting Lisk Service to a blockchain node
Muhammad Talha <muhammad.talha@lightcurve.io>
:toc: preamble
:toclevels: 3
:page-toclevels: 3
:sectnums:
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -

:docs_core: v4@lisk-core::
:docs_service: 0.7@lisk-service::
:url_service_index: {docs_service}index.adoc
:url_npm_core_setup: {docs_core}setup/npm.adoc
:url_blockchain_client: build-blockchain/create-blockchain-client.adoc
:url_service_docker_setup: {docs_service}setup/docker.adoc
:url_service_source_setup: {docs_service}setup/source.adoc
:url_connect_node: {docs_service}/setup/docker.adoc#connecting-lisk-service-to-a-blockchain-node
:url_sidechain: understand-blockchain/interoperability/index.adoc#sidechain
:rpc_api: api/lisk-service-rpc.adoc
:http_api: api/lisk-service-http.adoc
:pm2_sidechain_json: run-blockchain/process-management.adoc#using-a-json-config-file
:pm2_sidechain: run-blockchain/process-management.adoc

//footnotes

> :fn_node_config: footnote:config[Events are necessary to determine the transaction execution status and the actual block generation rewards. Without this information, Lisk Service wouldn’t be able index the all the transactions. Thus, the indexing will be incomplete. Setting "system.keepEventsForHeights: -1" will ensure that the events are not deleted and are maintained on the node for all the block heights. By default the node only maintains the events for the last 300 blocks.]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:fn_node_config: footnote:config[Events are necessary to determine the transaction execution status and the actual block generation rewards. Without this information, Lisk Service wouldn’t be able index the all the transactions. Thus, the indexing will be incomplete. Setting "system.keepEventsForHeights: -1" will ensure that the events are not deleted and are maintained on the node for all the block heights. By default, the node only maintains the events for the last 300 blocks.]
```

* Alternatively, you can setup up a xref:{url_sidechain}[sidechain] node to connect with Lisk Service.

2. It is required to set up Lisk Service.

* Lisk Service must be set up via either the recommended xref:{url_service_docker_setup}[] or the xref:{url_service_source_setup}[] guide.
* Please make sure to set `system.keepEventsForHeights: -1` in the node config{fn_node_config} before synchronizing the node with the network.
====

== Configuring a node

Use the client CLI to start the node with the desired configurations.

* `--api-ws` enables the WebSocket API of the node, if not already enabled within the *config.json* file.
* `--api-ws-host=0.0.0.0` allows remote servers to connect to the blockchain node via WS API.
If this option is not set, it defaults to `127.0.0.1`.
* `--api-ws-port=7887` is the port for the WebSocket API.
* `--api-http` allows remote servers to connect with the blockchain node via HTTP.

[tabs]
=====
Sidechain node::
+
--
We recommend using xref:{pm2_sidechain}[PM2 for running a node], the starting script of the *pm2.conf.json* file can look like the following:

.pm2.conf.json
[source,json]
----
{
  "apps": [
    {
      "name": "hello_client",

>       "script": "./bin/run start --api-ws --api-ws-host=0.0.0.0 --api-ws-port=7887 --api-http"

Author: What do these flags mean?  `-n mainnet` & `-n default`

>       "script": "./bin/run start --api-ws --api-ws-host=0.0.0.0 --api-ws-port=7887 --api-http"

Reviewer: The `-n, --network` flag signifies the network the client connects to (configs are present under the `./config/{default,mainnet,testnet,devnet,...}`) directories

>       "script": "./bin/run start --api-ws --api-ws-host=0.0.0.0 --api-ws-port=7887 --api-http"

Author: Is the `-n, --network` flag specific to Lisk-core, or does it also apply to a sidechain node?

}
----

To start the node with your desired configurations mentioned above, execute the following command:

[source,bash]
----
pm2 start pm2.conf.json
----
--
Lisk Core node::
+
--
The `--network` flag determines the blockchain network Lisk Core connects to.

[source,bash]
----
lisk-core start --network mainnet --api-ws --api-ws-host=0.0.0.0 --api-ws-port=7887 --api-http
----
To connect to a different network, replace `mainnet` with either `testnet` or `devnet`.
--
=====

Once the node starts, follow the steps mentioned in the xref:{url_connect_node}[Connecting Lisk Service to a blockchain node] section to connect Lisk Service with a node.

== Running Lisk Service
Run the docker container for `lisk-service`, `redis`, and `mysql` or `mariadb`. It is recommended to use `mariadb` instead of `mysql` when running on Darwin.

[tabs]
=====
lisk-service::
+
--
.Run "lisk-service" container: ./lisk-service/
[source,bash]
----
make up
----
--
redis::
+
--
.Run "redis" container: ./lisk-service/jenkins/redis
[source,bash]
----
make up
----
--
mariadb::
+
--
.Run "mariadb" container: ./lisk-service/jenkins/mariadb
[source,bash]
----
make up
----
--
=====

== Checking established connection 

> After both the blockchain client and the Lisk Service are running, you'll see a similar message to the following on your node CLI.

Author: The aligned term is `blockchain client`

> After both the blockchain client and the Lisk Service are running, you'll see a similar message to the following on your node CLI.

Reviewer: However, the above statement needs restructuring. Please adjust it accordingly.

:url_service_docker_setup: {docs_service}setup/docker.adoc
:url_service_source_setup: {docs_service}setup/source.adoc
:url_connect_node: {docs_service}/setup/docker.adoc#connecting-lisk-service-to-a-blockchain-node
:url_sidechain: understand-blockchain/interoperability/index.adoc#sidechain
:rpc_api: api/lisk-service-rpc.adoc
:http_api: api/lisk-service-http.adoc
:pm2_sidechain_json: run-blockchain/process-management.adoc#using-a-json-config-file
:pm2_sidechain: run-blockchain/process-management.adoc

//footnotes

:fn_node_config: footnote:config[Events are necessary to determine the transaction execution status and the actual block generation rewards. Without this information, Lisk Service wouldn’t be able to index all the transactions. Thus, the indexing will be incomplete. Setting "system.keepEventsForHeights: -1" will ensure that the events are not deleted and are maintained on the node for all the block heights. By default, the node only maintains the events for the last 300 blocks.]

xref:{url_service_index}[Lisk Service] is a web application middleware that allows interaction with various blockchain networks based on the Lisk protocol.

> In this guide, you'll learn to connect Lisk Service to a blockchain node.

Reviewer 2: Please explain to the reader what could be the reasons why we want to connect Lisk Service to a Service node.

Also give a short general introduction to Lisk Service, as this can be considered to be a landing page for people who want to get started with Lisk Service.

.pm2.conf.json
[source,json]
----
{
  "apps": [
    {
      "name": "hello_client",
      "script": "./bin/run start --api-ws -n default --api-ws-host=0.0.0.0 --api-ws-port=7887 --api-http"
    }
  ]
}
----

NOTE: The `*script*` assumes that the blockchain client has been built with `*npm run build*` and the *pm2.conf.json* assumes that it lies within the blockchain client's root directory.

To start the node with your desired configurations mentioned above, execute the following command:

[source,bash]
----
pm2 start pm2.conf.json
----
--
Lisk Core node::
+
--
The `--network` flag determines the blockchain network Lisk Core connects to.

[source,bash]
----
lisk-core start --network mainnet --api-ws --api-ws-host=0.0.0.0 --api-ws-port=7887 --api-http
----
--
=====

Once the node starts, follow the steps mentioned in the xref:{url_connect_node}[Connecting Lisk Service to a blockchain node] section to connect Lisk Service with a node.

== Running Lisk Service
Run the docker container for `lisk-service`, `redis`, and `mysql` or `mariadb`. It is recommended to use `mariadb` instead of `mysql` when running on Darwin.

> [tabs]

Reviewer 2: Are these alternative ways to start lisk service, or does a user need to run them after each other? In case of the latter, please rempve the tabs and explain it step by step.

Author: These are alternative ways.

[source,bash]
----
make up
----
--
redis::
+
--
.Run "redis" container: ./lisk-service/jenkins/redis
[source,bash]
----
make up
----
--
mariadb::
+
--
.Run "mariadb" container: ./lisk-service/jenkins/mariadb
[source,bash]
----
make up
----
--
=====

== Checking established connection 

After both the blockchain client and the Lisk Service are running and connected, you should see a similar entry in the logs of the blockchain node.

[source,bash]
----
2023-06-27T11:03:39.085Z INFO XYZ.local engine 35439 New web socket client connected
----

Another hint that Lisk Service is now connected to your node is the occurrence of the following entry in the logs from the `blockchain-connector` service.

[source,bash]
----
2023-06-26T16:09:28.435 INFO [app] Found a node, starting service LISK-SERVICE-BLOCKCHAIN-CONNECTOR...
----

You can also invoke an endpoint of the blockchain node via Lisk service API like the following, to verify that the connection was established successfully.

[source,bash]
----
curl --location 'http://localhost:9901/api/v3/invoke' --header 'Content-Type: application/json' --data '{"endpoint": "chain_getLastBlock","params": {}}' | json_pp
----

> For more information about Lisk Service APIs, see xref:{rpc_api}[] or xref:{http_api}[] reference pages.

Author: As discussed, I have added a few links to this page and have also created a new issue: [#1836](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-docs/issues/1836) for the rest of the links.
